[SOUND].
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm gonna take a
diversion from this code for just a moment
and I'm gonna go over to one of my repos.
>> Kyle Simpson: Happens
to be the one for the book.
There's a site that I built for
my Kickstarter backers.
It's what I use to survey the Kickstarter
backers and get their information, so
I know where to send their t-shirts and
stuff.
[COUGH] And so I have the code for
that whole survey site built up here.
And by the way,
if you are interested at all in
example code of how to perhaps
implement middle-end based on Node.js.
I'm using some of those
middle end concepts here.
So I have a server JS file,
which is kind of my main entry point.
And, inside of my server file
I didn't do a lot of work to
organize this out into modules, but
obviously, a lot of this code we.
Or [COUGH] organize in the modules.
[COUGH] But there's,
I wanna take you to one particular place,
the profile.get path which
is called do get profiles.
Let's go to the function, do get profile.
And I wanna show you cuz I'm dog
fooding all my own stuff in terms
of a sequence here.
Let me make that a lot bigger.
That's way too small.
This is the function that
gets called whenever I need
to retrieve the profile for
my logged in user.
So the first thing that you notice, I'm
getting a request in a response stream.
We'll understand that when we get
into a little bit further into node.
But I have a request in a response
stream for the incoming request.
The first thing I wanna do is collect any
post data that's on the request stream.
So, I call that function who is of
course going to generate a sequence and
return it back to me.
And then .val, remember .val is
kind of like our synchronous step.
These are just synchronous
transformations steps.
So I wanna process the JSON post data,
that's a function that will take
the data from the previous step and
do some processing on it and
pass along the process data.
I receive the session data and off of
the session data I get the session ID.
I pass the session ID along
which means now we need to
do a validate of my session.
Now that's an asynchronous task,
so I don't do .val here.
I do a .SCQ which means
fire off another function who's
gonna give us back a sequence.
So validate session gets
a session ID into him.
He returns us back a promised sequence and
whenever he completes,
then we move on to the next thing.
He'll send us back a session
ID if we validated.
Now if we didn't validate,
he'd send us back an error
which would propagate into our sequence
and we would respond back with an error.
But if we got a valid session ID back
then we know everything's fine with
the session ID.
And we pull out the user ID from our
sessions table from our sessions hash.
Now we go off and retrieve their user
profile based upon their user ID.
And that's an asynchronous task,
it's gonna make a call off to
the reddest database and go and
pull out all the information.
When it finishes,
it sends us back our profile data.
And now we're finally ready to end our
response by sending that JSON data back
to the server.
This is a fairly complex asynchronous
flow with 10 or 15 different steps.
And if we were to step into
each of these functions like if
I were to go and
find the function to retrieveProfile.
Here's that function and you'll know
here's me calling off into my reddest
database and musing more of my sync and
here's I'm pulling out all
the field names and properly defaulting
their values and stuff like that.
Any one of these that we went into,
there's complexity there to
the synchronicity, this is
fundamentally an asynchronous program.
And that really is the way most of our
programs are written but we're just used
to dealing with things thinking about
things in terms of synchronicity.
So the point here is
that the attempt has been
made to create code, that if I wanted
to reason about the overall flow, for
instance, let's say there was some
condition where I said, you know what?
I need to insert some step
in the middle of my flow.
I wanna have a nice clean place for
me to go and reason about
what steps one through 15 look like so
that I can easily insert step 7.
I know what step 6 looked like and
what step 8 expected and
I can easily insert step 7 so
that handles that flow.
Any abstraction library that you choose
to use whether it's a sequence or
queue or CUJO or
any of the other ones that are out there,
there's a whole bunch of
great ones out there.
Whatever you use, the goal should be for
you to express code
in a very declarative way so that you can
understand your asynchronous flow control.
If you're struggling to do that,
you're probably not using the right set
of abstractions and
you might look for something better.
Okay.